>> Brian Holt: We're gonna code the flight
protocol by hand, which is gonna be fun.
So we're gonna try and
do a try catch here as well because this
is gonna be prone to,
it could be prone to errors.
Anything that's gonna be an error in
the React app would be an error here.
So we just wanna be aware of that.
So, I mean, we're just gonna do
the exact same thing here, essentially.
The request.log.error("react-flight err",
and then we're gonna put err here,
and we'll just say,
throw err, and
then this will get caught up here,
so it'll crash the thing intentionally.
All right, so
in here we're gonna say reply.header.
It's not actually string text or
anything like that, it's a octet stream.
So we have to say the Content-Type is
application/octet stream, and
then just be careful about white space.
It's significant here, so
be careful about white space.
So let's go ahead and we're gonna
do this with the a template string.
So return reply.send, and
you'll be surprised at this.
We're gonna put this
all the way down here.
It's really just like JSON and references.
That's really all
the React Flight protocol is,
it's like a series of JSON
that describes markup.
And then essentially you can say, here's
my one, and so put my one over here.
So it looks kind of react, so
that you can repeat components.
So you're gonna say my
first thing my first
reference, so the one colon is name,
"App", "env", "Server",
"key" :null, "owner",
:null, and then null props.
So empty object.
So that's the first entry here.
Anything that refers to one refers to
this 0:D
>> Brian Holt: $1,
so this one I am less certain
about what the D means.
They don't document anywhere.
So all this was just me messing around and
breaking the app until I
figured out what stuff did.
I think it's basically just
like dereferencing, right?
So it's saying on 0, dereference number 1,
which is going to be this.
If dereference is a weird term for you,
just basically means I have a pointer,
go look at what the pointer
is pointing at.
The other reason why they don't want me to
teach this stuff to you is it's very prone
to change.
Even by the time that this gets released,
this actually might not be what it is.
But I was telling you that you
would never write RSCs by hand,
you will definitely never
write flight protocol by hand.
But I wanted you to see under the hood,
it's really not that interesting or
that hard to do.
Okay, so we're gonna say 0: here,
and we're gonna say $, div, null.
Again, this also looks like create element
calls a little bit as well, doesn't it?
Children, [ ].
>> Speaker 2: Watch out, comma instead
of a colon between env and server.
>> Brian Holt: Is that what I have here?
Env right there, yep, you're right.
I put a comma here,
it's supposed to be a colon.
>> Brian Holt: "$" here, h1, null.
>> Brian Holt: And object here, children,
>> Brian Holt: Notes App.
Okay, after the bracer there, no space.
>> Brian Holt: $1, close, close, comma $1,
and there's no space.
I keep wanting to put spaces in there,
but there's none.
Again, make sure there's
no indentation here.
In fact, yeah, this is the same one,
cuz it's all the same line.
And this ends like this, or
else it's gonna yell at you, and
it might yell at you anyway, right?
Again, this is very prone to breaking.
It's not a publicly posted protocol.
They don't post anything in line
of what flight protocol is.
I tried to find it, and
this just doesn't exist.
So this, I think we should work now.
So, this is my webpack server running.
So I did npm run dev client,
and I'm just gonna start
another one here that's
gonna be npm run dev server.
Let's see what I got wrong here first.
So it doesn't find
noframeworkdistreactclientmanif,
I put two ns there.
I can spell.
Manifest, here we go.
So if you can spell better than I can,
then you're having
a better time than I am.
So, moment of truth, and
then we'll debug some problems here.
I'm sure many, if not all,
of you are having some issue.
Let's see.
And I didn't write Notes app anywhere.
This h1 does not exist in my app, but
it's showing up here, which is wild.
So if we look at my network call here,
and I look at the response,
it's just giving back this nonsense,
right?
But it's translating that into this
flight protocol that I have here,
the Create root knows how to
interpret into this, crazy, right?
It's just wild to me that this all
works and doesn't fall apart instantly.
If it's not working for you, again, nobody
should be writing this by hand ever.
So please just go into the notes here.
Pretty sure that what I've done
is a crime in some jurisdictions.
Copy and paste all of this.
And then just making sure that
you're running main.js not,
I guess you would have to be.
Anyway, make sure you're
running main js and
not server js, or
maybe your Babel config might be.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, I'll take a look.
>> Brian Holt: A miss that would
be the thing I would look at here.
Generally, do the client one first.
Npm run dev:client, and
just to bring this up here,
it's just running these right here.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and
then npm run dev:server.
If you run server first, it'll grab
an outdated version of your manifest,
which is important.
>> Speaker 2: Was that a webpack issue
which I just copied your new one in?
It's fine.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
just like the webpack config.
>> Speaker 2: I think I
stitched it together wrong.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, I mean,
some insane person wrote this, who is me.
So it's easy to get some
of this stuff wrong.
And what's frustrating is it's
actually the interesting part of this.
The interesting part of this is the flight
protocol person of this or part of this.
So let's go ahead and
take this a half step further.
I'm not going to code this one by hand,
cuz it's just so much longer.
This one, though.
I'm gonna copy and paste this one, and
I'm gonna put that into the server.js.
I'm going to replace this one
with something just longer.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, and again,
it tried to format it when I pasted it,
and don't let it do that.
You have to make sure that
these have no indentation.
>> Brian Holt: So now if I refresh the
page here, I actually get my full app now.
That's wild, right?
How did that happen?
So again, notice this has the three,
that's the three pointer,
the one pointer, I don't know what
happened to be honest with you.
And then this is saying that this is
a client component that refers to
the name of this in the bundle.
And this says this is which
bundle it's in, right?
So it's in this like runtime chunk.
And then notice down here this $L3,
that's the invocation of this
is a client side component that
you're going to pull from
somewhere else in my bundle here.
So again, the details really aren't
super interesting or important here,
but I just wanted you to see the machinery
here is not that complicated.
It's just a bit opaque.
If I charged you at your job is go
figure out what this actually does in
diagram all that stuff, massive waste
of time, but you definitely could.
I'm sure you could probably even put
this into ChatGPT and say, like,
tell me individually what every
one of these things does.
And it would probably do it just fine.
It's very, very simple logic to follow.
Okay, let's actually make this work now,
right?
Cuz we've hacked around by just
literally giving the strings back,
let's actually coat up the thing that
actually gives back the correct thing.
So get rid of all this just pure nonsense,
absolute nonsense.
No one should be careful about any
white space ever, delete that.
And we're still gonna
say the octet heather.
That's correct.
We're gonna say const
=renderToPipeableStream.
We're gonna say
react.createElement(App) or h.
We called it h before we
could have done that again.
And we're just gonna give
it this module map for
it to refer to of what is where, okay?
And then we're just gonna
do the fun thing here.
As you just say, pipe(reply.raw).
So it's essentially saying, whenever you
have chunks that are available to go out
to the users, we could have done this
with server-side rendering as well,
just send them as they come, right?
Don't hold them all back at once,
send them as they come.
>> Brian Holt: And
that's all you need to do.
In theory now,
we should be able to refresh this page.
And we got an error.
No such table notes.
>> Brian Holt: So I think that
might be my path was wrong here.
But we'll try it once and
see if it's easy to fix.
>> Speaker 2: Just dot, dot slash,
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
that's kind of what my thought was.
So here in server component, I think.
You just need to say
this is ../ cuz I think I
changed my paths right
before I shipped this.
And there you go.
Okay, and now we have a server
component with full of notes,
and then we have a client component
that actually works client-side as well.
And this is all using server components.
First of all, this is kind of interesting
that it shows you the server, what's
happening on the server, what's happening
on the client, which is pretty neat.
And then if you look at these Xhrs, you
can see the React Flight protocol going in
and out, which is pretty cool as well.
And you can see,
does this look familiar to you?
It's just generating the flight protocol.
That's all it's doing.
And that's it.
That is how you code React
server components by hand.
Everything else is kinda
derivative from this, right?
Everything I'm gonna show you is layers
that Next.js gives you on top of this that
makes it easier, but generally all
of the principles remain the same.
>> Brian Holt: We did it.
Nobody died, except that person [LAUGH].